# ccn-tools

This page describes the tools I have built as part of my research and development 
for CCN. These tools have aided me in my research to perform tasks such as 
packet generation and inspection, topology management, and forwarder testing
and development. The following list briefly describes each of the tools and their
respective use in the suite. 

* [pktgen](https://github.com/chris-wood/ccnx-pktgen): This is a tool to generate
CCNx packets (e.g., interests and content objects) for use in testing forwarders.
The goal is to enable packets to be (deterministically and) programmatically 
generated using simple functional semantics to allow for repeatable experimentation.
Moreover, when used in forwarder test environments (see below), it generates 
packet pairs (interests and matching content objects) to emulate real traffic.
* [flux](https://github.com/chris-wood/flux): This is a domain-specific language
for procedurally specifying the packet flow of an application. It is used to let
application traffic patterns be codified in a high-level language. The goal is to
allow application behavior with the network to be assessed without dealing with any
of the application-layer concerns. In a sense, this is done by mocking application logic.
* [topogen](https://github.com/chris-wood/ccnx-topogen): This is a tool to convert CCN 
application and network topologies expressed as DOT graphs to forwarder configuration 
files to replicate the actual scenario. This is used to run real forwarders on real
hardware transferring real packets -- it is not for simulation purposes.
* [pktpusher](https://github.com/chris-wood/ccnx-fwdharness): This is a tool used
to test forwarders. It consists of two programs -- a sender (consumer) and a 
receiver (producer) -- that interact by sending interests and the respective content
objects. The preliminary version uses primitive techniques to control the flow
of interests from the sender. A future plan is to extend the sender program to 
parse "executable packet flows" that are generated by flux to better capture 
application-specific packet flows (as opposed to "brute force" send and receive).
The receiver implements a basic content-addressable repository (hash table) that
is used to serve content to the sender in response to an interest.
* [dissect](https://github.com/chris-wood/dissect): This is a tool to inspect CCN
packets in raw form. It also features the ability to export packets to alternative
encodings if necessary, e.g., JSON. It is written in C to enable portability
and re-use across other projects. 
* [essayons](https://github.com/chris-wood/essayons): This is an experimentation tool that
uses forwarder configurations to create a topology on real systems, run an experiment, 
and collect output data about the experiment. 






